# 🔮 DAILY GNOSIS REPORT: 2026-02-01
> STATUS: 4 ANOMALIES DETECTED

### [Entropy production versus memory effects in two-level open quantum systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.21930v1)
**Published:** 2026-01-29T16:20:31Z

> We compare several definitions of entropy production rate introduced in the literature from a large variety of situations and motivations, and then analyze their relations with memory effects. Considering a relevant experimental example of a qubit interacting with a single bosonic mode playing the role of a finite bath, we show that all definitions of entropy production coincide at weak coupling. In the strong coupling regime, significant discrepancies emerge between the different entropy produc...

---
### [Quantum Simulation with Fluxonium Qutrit Arrays](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.21507v1)
**Published:** 2026-01-29T10:25:21Z

> Fluxonium superconducting circuits were originally proposed to realize highly coherent qubits. In this work, we explore how these circuits can be used to implement and harness qutrits, by tuning their energy levels and matrix elements via an external flux bias. In particular, we investigate the distinctive features of arrays of fluxonium qutrits, and their potential for the quantum simulation of exotic quantum matter. We identify four different operational regimes, classified according to the pl...

---
### [On the quantum nature of strong gravity](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.21145v1)
**Published:** 2026-01-29T00:55:56Z

> Belenchia et al. [Phys. Rev. D 98, 126009 (2018)] have analyzed a gedankenexperiment where two observers, Alice and Bob, attempt to communicate via superluminal signals using a superposition of massive particles dressed by Newtonian fields and a test particle as field detector. Quantum fluctuations in the particle motion and in the field prevent signaling or violations of quantum mechanics in this setup. We reformulate this thought experiment by considering gravitational waves emitted by an exte...

---
### [Quantum metrology enhanced by effective time reversal](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.20952v1)
**Published:** 2026-01-28T19:00:06Z

> Quantum metrology involves the application of quantum resources to enhance measurements. Several communities have developed quantum-metrology strategies that leverage effective time reversals. These strategies, we posit, form four classes. First, echo metrology begins with a preparatory unitary and ends with that unitary's time-reverse. The protocol amplifies the visibility of a small parameter to be sensed. Similarly, weak-value amplification enhances a weak coupling's detectability. The techni...

---
